hi my name is Brad cheer and welcome to
thick paint today I want to talk a
little bit about seeing the big picture
there are a few tools that I use that
enable me to see the 5a your plane's a
little bit better to focus on values and
to generally just simplify the painted
image most of the problems in painting
are about seeing things simply and our
eyes are built in a way that we really
see very complex images there's good
reasons for that
but when we're painting we really need
to simplify in order to demonstrate how
I use these tools I'm going to take a
painting I did several months ago and
we're going to take a single look at it
now generally speaking I think of this
painting is a failed painting so let me
use the tools to look at this painting
afresh what I want to do is is try to
decide where the painting is failing and
and in a future video I'm going to
correct those mistakes but for now I
just want to identify using these tools
and the tools I have are these are my
painting glasses it's just a 10.25
reading glasses and then I've got 1.5
reading glasses a reduction lens and in
prison
well this is our pinion that we're going
to correct and hopefully we can see a
little bit easier than areas that are
not working quite right with these these
optical tools okay here's the reduction
lens let's see how it just kind of got
you know without like the darks of the
ground or way too dark
let's created the strange line this line
right here is off and then the darkness
if you remember our five zones this this
mountain range is too dark he's the
director that range is almost the same
darkness as these trees was just not
right so these these mountains should be
considerably lighter and the shadow here
just has gone way too dark they should
be quite low maybe a two or a three but
this is this is like a one so that it
creates this weird line kind of breaks
yeah and since there's that very dark
bit of grass right here they kind of
extend accentuates those two parallel
motion that sort of divides the shape
here and then this shape he's my little
dark G let's take another looking back
yeah I think that's a little dark okay
when I look through the reduction lens I
can see that the trees here just kind of
combined with this massive amount here
and that's not good I prefer to see this
kind broken up this is my prison right
here
and when you hold it up the lens I mean
when you move that in close to your eye
you can see that it's a the image has
been reversed just like looking in a
mirror
yeah there's nothing that really bothers
me when I reverse that except for maybe
maybe I don't like this straight line
right here what do I see
when I look at it out of hook sight
those dark shapes on the bottom really
bother me so that's interesting let's
try two lenses together yeah
the more I look through that it looks
like the vegetation is a little bare
right in here
and this again looks too straight so
since we're broken up maybe a little
energy running through here a little bit
more mass in there well that's it for
today
as always please feel free to leave any
comments or questions or if you'd like
to share any further technical
information I appreciate it thank you